# Cryptographic Failures
Quick overview of OWASP [Cryptographic Failures](https://owasp.org/Top10/A02_2021-Cryptographic_Failures/).

## Notable Common Weakness Enumerations (CWEs)
- [CWE-259: Use of Hard-coded Password](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/259.html)
- [CWE-327: Broken or Risky Crypto Algorithm](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/327.html)
- [CWE-331 Insufficient Entropy](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/331.html)


## 5 Notable examples
- **Is any data transmitted in clear text? This concerns protocols such as HTTP, SMTP, FTP also using TLS upgrades like STARTTLS.** External internet traffic is hazardous. **Verify all internal traffic**, e.g., between load balancers, web servers, or back-end systems.
- **Are default crypto keys in use**, weak crypto keys generated or re-used, or is proper key management or rotation missing? Are **crypto keys checked into source code repositories?**
- **Is encryption not enforced**, e.g., are any HTTP headers (browser) security directives or headers missing?
- **Are passwords being used as cryptographic keys** in absence of a password base key derivation function?
- **Is randomness used for cryptographic purposes that was not designed to meet cryptographic requirements?**


## How to prevent
- Make sure to **encrypt all sensitive data at rest.**
- **Encrypt all data in transit with secure protocols such as TLS with forward secrecy (FS) ciphers**, **cipher prioritization by the server**, and secure parameters. Enforce encryption using directives like HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS).
- Do not use **legacy protocols such as FTP and SMTP** for transporting sensitive data.
- Store passwords using strong **adaptive and salted hashing functions with a work factor** (delay factor), such as Argon2, scrypt, bcrypt or PBKDF2.
- **Verify independently the effectiveness** of configuration and settings.


## Example Attack scenarios
- Nothing to sum up. See **Example Attack Scenarios** of [Cryptographic Failures](https://owasp.org/Top10/A02_2021-Cryptographic_Failures/).
