# Injection
Quick overview of OWASP [Injection](https://owasp.org/Top10/A03_2021-Injection/).

## Notable Common Weakness Enumerations (CWEs)
- [CWE-79: Cross-site Scripting](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/79.html)
- [CWE-89: SQL Injection](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/89.html)
- [CWE-73: External Control of File Name or Path.](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/73.html)


## 5 Notable examples
- **User-supplied data is not validated, filtered, or sanitized** by the application.
- Dynamic queries or non-parameterized **calls without context-aware escaping are used directly in the interpreter.**
- **Hostile data is used within object-relational mapping (ORM)** search parameters to extract additional, sensitive records.
- Hostile data is directly used or concatenated. **The SQL or command contains the structure and malicious data in dynamic queries, commands, or stored procedures.**
- **Data logged from user input or other sources**, which can lead to sensitive data exposure or others. *(Example: Log4j LDAP, NOT IN THE OWASP DESCRIPTION. There were only 4 points.)*


## How to prevent
- **The preferred option is to use a safe API, which avoids using the interpreter entirely**, provides a parameterized interface, or migrates to Object Relational Mapping Tools (ORMs).
Note: Even when parameterized, **stored procedures can still introduce SQL injection if PL/SQL or T-SQL concatenates queries and data or executes hostile data with EXECUTE IMMEDIATE or exec().**
- **Use positive server-side input validation.** This is not a complete defense as many applications require special characters, such as text areas or APIs for mobile applications.
- For any residual dynamic queries, **escape special characters using the specific escape syntax for that interpreter.** Note: **SQL structures such as table names, column names, and so on cannot be escaped,** and thus user-supplied structure names are dangerous. This is a common issue in report-writing software.
- **Use LIMIT and other SQL controls within queries to prevent mass disclosure** of records in case of SQL injection.
- **Automated testing of all parameters, headers, URL, cookies, JSON, SOAP, and XML data inputs is strongly encouraged.** Organizations can include static (SAST), dynamic (DAST), and interactive (IAST) **application security testing tools into the CI/CD pipeline** to identify introduced injection flaws before production deployment


## Example Attack scenarios
- Nothing to sum up. See **Example Attack Scenarios** of [Injection](https://owasp.org/Top10/A03_2021-Injection/).
