# Security Misconfiguration
Quick overview of OWASP [Security Misconfiguration](https://owasp.org/Top10/A05_2021-Security_Misconfiguration/).
New category in 2021. Difference between insecure design and insecure implementation.

## Notable Common Weakness Enumerations (CWEs)
- [CWE-16 Configuration](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/16.html)
- [CWE-611 Improper Restriction of XML External Entity Reference.](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/611.html)


## 5 Notable examples
- **Missing appropriate security hardening** across any part of the application stack or improperly configured permissions on cloud services.
- **Unnecessary features are enabled or installed** (e.g., unnecessary ports, services, pages, accounts, or privileges).
- **Default accounts and their passwords are still enabled and unchanged.**
- For upgraded systems, **the latest security features are disabled or not configured securely.**
- The software is **out of date or vulnerable**


## How to prevent
- A **minimal platform without any unnecessary features**, components, documentation, and samples. Remove or do not install unused features and frameworks.
- **A repeatable hardening process makes it fast and easy to deploy another environment that is appropriately locked down.** Development, QA, and production environments should all be configured identically, with different credentials used in each environment. This process should be automated to minimize the effort required to set up a new secure environment.
- A task to **review and update the configurations appropriate to all security notes, updates, and patches as part of the patch management process** (see A06:2021-Vulnerable and Outdated Components). Review cloud storage permissions (e.g., S3 bucket permissions).
- **Sending security directives to clients**, e.g., Security Headers.
- An **automated process to verify the effectiveness of the configurations and settings** in all environments.


## Example Attack scenarios
- Nothing to sum up. See **Example Attack Scenarios** of [Security Misconfiguration](https://owasp.org/Top10/A05_2021-Security_Misconfiguration/).
