# Vulnerable and Outdated Components
Quick overview of OWASP [Vulnerable and outdated components](https://owasp.org/Top10/A06_2021-Vulnerable_and_Outdated_Components/).

## Notable Common Weakness Enumerations (CWEs)
- [CWE-1104: Use of Unmaintained Third-Party Components](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1104.html)


## 5 Notable examples
- If you **do not know the versions of all components you use** (both client-side and server-side). This includes components you directly use as well as nested dependencies.
- If the **software is vulnerable, unsupported, or out of date.** This includes the OS, web/application server, database management system (DBMS), applications, APIs and all components, runtime environments, and libraries.
- If you do not **scan for vulnerabilities regularly** and subscribe to security bulletins related to the components you use.
- If you do not **fix or upgrade the underlying platform, frameworks, and dependencies in a risk-based, timely fashion.** This commonly happens in environments when patching is a monthly or quarterly task under change control, leaving organizations open to days or months of unnecessary exposure to fixed vulnerabilities.
- If software developers do not **test the compatibility of updated, upgraded, or patched libraries.**


## How to prevent
- **Remove unused dependencies, unnecessary features, components, files, and documentation.**
- **Continuously inventory the versions of both client-side and server-side components (e.g., frameworks, libraries) and their dependencies using tools like versions, OWASP Dependency Check, retire.js,** etc. **Continuously monitor sources like Common Vulnerability and Exposures (CVE) and National Vulnerability Database (NVD) for vulnerabilities in the components.** Use software composition analysis tools to automate the process. Subscribe to email alerts for security vulnerabilities related to components you use.
- **Only obtain components from official sources over secure links.** **Prefer signed packages** to reduce the chance of including a modified, malicious component (See A08:2021-Software and Data Integrity Failures).
- **Monitor for libraries and components that are unmaintained or do not create security patches for older versions.** If patching is not possible, consider deploying a virtual patch to monitor, detect, or protect against the discovered issue.


## Example Attack scenarios
- Nothing to sum up. See **Example Attack Scenarios** of [Vulnerable and outdated components](https://owasp.org/Top10/A06_2021-Vulnerable_and_Outdated_Components/).
