# Identification And Authentication Failures
Quick overview of OWASP [Identification And Authentication Failures](https://owasp.org/Top10/A07_2021-Identification_and_Authentication_Failures/).

## Notable Common Weakness Enumerations (CWEs)
- [CWE-297: Improper Validation of Certificate with Host Mismatch](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/297.html)
- [CWE-287: Improper Authentication](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/287.html)
- [CWE-384: Session Fixation.](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/384.html)

## 5 Notable examples
- **Automated attacks such as credential stuffing**, where the attacker has a list of valid usernames and passwords.
- **Brute force** attacks.
- **Default, weak, or well-known passwords**, such as "Password1" or "admin/admin" **are allowed.**
- **Usage of weak or ineffective credential recovery and forgot-password processes**, such as "knowledge-based answers," which cannot be made safe
- **Usage of plain text, encrypted, or weakly hashed passwords** data stores (see A02:2021-Cryptographic Failures).


## How to prevent
- Where possible, implement multi-factor authentication to prevent automated credential stuffing, brute force, and stolen credential reuse attacks.
- Do not ship or deploy with any default credentials, particularly for admin users.
- Align password length, complexity, and rotation policies with National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 800-63b's guidelines in section 5.1.1 for Memorized Secrets or other modern, evidence-based password policies.
- Ensure registration, credential recovery, and API pathways are hardened against account enumeration attacks by using the same messages for all outcomes.
- Limit or increasingly delay failed login attempts, but be careful not to create a denial of service scenario. Log all failures and alert administrators when credential stuffing, brute force, or other attacks are detected.


## Example Attack scenarios
- Nothing to sum up. See **Example Attack Scenarios** of [Identification And Authentication Failures](https://owasp.org/Top10/A07_2021-Identification_and_Authentication_Failures/).
